# v0.9.50 Beta 

## Release Notes

### Issue Resolution

- Simplified node data structure caused numerous issues in the source code.
- Recalculated paths in both compile and search steps.

### Solutions Implemented

- Ensured backward compatibility with the new node data structure.
- Implemented a new single source of truth within each node.
- Introduced text nodes for better representation.
- Enriched with helper methods and information per node.
- Removed path calculation in the compiler.
- Eliminated path re-calculation in the searcher.
- Utilized `node.path` in both compiler and searcher.
- Introduced helper methods for the diffing algorithm within each node.

### Calculated Private Properties

- [x] `level`: Indicates the node level.
- [x] `path`: Specifies the path to the node from the parent node.
- [x] `text`: Indicates whether the node is a text node.
- [x] `is_text_node`: Indicates if the node is a text node.
- [x] `is_leaf`: Indicates whether the node is a leaf node.
- [x] `parent`: Reference to the parent node.

### Router Enhancements

- [x] History management.
- [x] Methods to get the current route, params, and queries.
- [x] Middleware support.
- [x] Wildcard route handling.
- [x] Support for server-side pages.

### Solution for Faster Rendering

- Implemented hydration function to fetch all UUIDs from the database.
- Hydration aimed at achieving faster first paint.



### Client Page Mount Process

1. ~~User changes the route.~~
2. ~~App renders HTML.~~
3. ~~Mounts the page on root; on DOMContentLoaded, triggers attached lifecycle for each component.~~
4. ~~render changes for attached lifecycle method if it decorated with @mutator~~

### Server-Side Rendering Process

1. ~~Renders HTML on the server.~~
2. ~~Hydrates the page in the virtual DOM, attaching component ID and component tree to the virtual DOM.~~
3. ~~Attaches the page to the index page template.~~
4. ~~Sends to the client.~~
5. ~~On interaction, re-renders the component.~~

### Compatibility Verification

- Runs without any issues as Pydide package when imported as package in config.json.

### Server Side rendering 

1. first we define the ssr route, in this example it's /ssr

```Python
from enum import Enum

class ClientRoutes(Enum):
    ssr="/ssr"
```

2. create the page within client side code 
```Python
class SimpleUi(Component):
		
    def node(self):
        div = Node(name="div")
        div.attributes.append(
            Attribute("styles", "logoContainer")
        )
        div.append_child(Image("./zenaura/assets/logo.png"))
        return div
```

- attach the page to the app 

```Python
client_app = App()
page_ui = Page([simpleUi])
counters_page = Page()
client_app.add_route(Route(
        title="ssr",
        path=ClientRoutes.ssr.value,
        page=page_ui,
        ssr=True
    ))

event_loop = asyncio.get_event_loop()
# asyncrounsly mount the page
event_loop.run_until_complete(client_app.handle_location())

```
note ssr value for the route, it's by default false, means the route is client side.

- now within our flask server , we can SSR the page
```Python

from flask import Flask, send_file, render_template
from zenaura.main import page_ui
from zenaura.routes import ClientRoutes
from zenaura.server import ZenauraServer

app = Flask(__name__,
            static_folder="zenaura"
            )

@app.route('/ssr')
def ssr():    
    # Render the main HTML template with the rendered component
    return ZenauraServer.render(page_ui)


if __name__ == "__main__":
    app.run()
```

- This will lead to super fast page paint, enhanced seo and all the other benefits of server side rendering.